Note

Go to the end
to download the full example code.

# (beta) Using TORCH_LOGS python API with torch.compile

**Author:** [Michael Lazos](https://github.com/mlazos)

This tutorial introduces the `TORCH_LOGS` environment variable, as well as the Python API, and
demonstrates how to apply it to observe the phases of `torch.compile`.

Note

This tutorial requires PyTorch 2.2.0 or later.

## Setup

In this example, we'll set up a simple Python function which performs an elementwise
add and observe the compilation process with `TORCH_LOGS` Python API.

Note

There is also an environment variable `TORCH_LOGS`, which can be used to
change logging settings at the command line. The equivalent environment
variable setting is shown for each example.

```
# exit cleanly if we are on a device that doesn't support torch.compile

# print separator and reset dynamo
# between each example

# View dynamo tracing
# TORCH_LOGS="+dynamo"

# View traced graph
# TORCH_LOGS="graph"

# View fusion decisions
# TORCH_LOGS="fusion"

# View output code generated by inductor
# TORCH_LOGS="output_code"
```

## Conclusion

In this tutorial we introduced the TORCH_LOGS environment variable and python API
by experimenting with a small number of the available logging options.
To view descriptions of all available options, run any python script
which imports torch and set TORCH_LOGS to "help".

Alternatively, you can view the [torch._logging documentation](https://pytorch.org/docs/main/logging.html) to see
descriptions of all available logging options.

For more information on torch.compile, see the [torch.compile tutorial](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/torch_compile_tutorial.html).

```
# %%%%%%RUNNABLE_CODE_REMOVED%%%%%%
```

**Total running time of the script:** (0 minutes 0.002 seconds)

[`Download Jupyter notebook: torch_logs.ipynb`](../_downloads/41526f38c5c72d94f024660d73cef185/torch_logs.ipynb)

[`Download Python source code: torch_logs.py`](../_downloads/aa116673383c7eeeacfb92b8c9beb97a/torch_logs.py)

[`Download zipped: torch_logs.zip`](../_downloads/c276b15b15888a68dfb889e3ac6950af/torch_logs.zip)