Note

Go to the end
to download the full example code.

# (prototype) Accelerating `torch.save` and `torch.load` with GPUDirect Storage

GPUDirect Storage enables a direct data path for direct memory access transfers
between GPU memory and storage, avoiding a bounce buffer through the CPU.

In version **2.7**, we introduced new prototype APIs to `torch.cuda.gds` that serve as thin wrappers around
the [cuFile APIs](https://docs.nvidia.com/gpudirect-storage/api-reference-guide/index.html#cufile-io-api)
that can be used with `torch.Tensor` to achieve improved I/O performance.

In this tutorial, we will demonstrate how to use the `torch.cuda.gds` APIs in conjunction with
checkpoints generated by `torch.save` and `torch.load` on local filesystem.

 What you will learn

- Understand how to use the `torch.cuda.gds` APIs in conjunction with
checkpoints generated by `torch.save` and `torch.load` on local filesystem

 Prerequisites

- PyTorch v.2.7.0 or later
- GPUDirect Storage must be installed per
[the documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/gpudirect-storage/troubleshooting-guide/contents.html)
- Ensure that the filesystem that you are saving/loading to supports GPUDirect Storage.

## Using GPUDirect Storage with `torch.save` and `torch.load`

GPUDirect Storage requires a storage alignment of 4KB. You can toggle this by using
`torch.utils.serialization.config.save.storage_alignment`:

The steps involved in the process are as follows:

- Write the checkpoint file without any actual data. This reserves the space on disk.
- Read the offsets for the storage associated with each tensor in the checkpoint using `FakeTensor`.
- Use `GDSFile` to write the appropriate data at these offsets.

Given a state dictionary of tensors that are on the GPU, one can use the `torch.serialization.skip_data` context
manager to save a checkpoint that contains all relevant metadata except the storage bytes. For each `torch.Storage`
in the state dictionary, space will be reserved within the checkpoint for the storage bytes.

We can get the offsets that each storage should be written to within the checkpoint by loading under
a `FakeTensorMode`. A FakeTensor is a tensor that has metadata (such as sizes, strides, dtype, device)
information about the tensor but does not have any storage bytes. The following snippet will not materialize
any data but will tag each `FakeTensor` with the offset within the checkpoint that
corresponds to the tensor.

If you are continuously saving the same state dictionary during training, you
would only need to obtain the offsets once and the same offsets can be re-used. Similarly if tensor is going to
be saved or loaded to repeatedly you can use the `torch.cuda.gds.gds_register_buffer` which wraps
`cuFileBufRegister` to register the storages as GDS buffers.

Note that `torch.cuda.gds.GdsFile.save_storage` binds to the synchronous `cuFileWrite` API,
so no synchronization is needed afterwards.

We verify correctness of the saved checkpoint by `torch.load` and comparing.

The loading flow is the inverse: you can use `torch.load` with the `torch.serialization.skip_data` context
manager to load everything except the storage bytes. This means that any tensors in the checkpoint will be
created but their storages will be empty (as if the tensors were created via `torch.empty`).

We once again use the `FakeTensorMode` to get the checkpoint offsets and
ascertain that the loaded checkpoint is the same as the saved checkpoint.

Similar to `torch.cuda.gds.GdsFile.save_storage`, `torch.cuda.gds.GdsFile.load_storage`
binds to the synchronous `cuFileRead` API, so no synchronization is needed afterwards.

# Conclusion

In this tutorial we have demonstrated how to use the prototype `torch.cuda.gds` APIs
in conjunction with `torch.save` and `torch.load` on local filesystem. Please
file an issue in the PyTorch GitHub repo if you have any feedback.

```
# %%%%%%RUNNABLE_CODE_REMOVED%%%%%%
```

[`Download Jupyter notebook: gpu_direct_storage.ipynb`](../_downloads/dfe6c11fbc8c2b95d334b203bba8b8c1/gpu_direct_storage.ipynb)

[`Download Python source code: gpu_direct_storage.py`](../_downloads/e8e10377fbc0ef32132e6ec73edef7ca/gpu_direct_storage.py)

[`Download zipped: gpu_direct_storage.zip`](../_downloads/20622c5ad7b939fdca1bea9d83fb35d7/gpu_direct_storage.zip)